NETLIFY_DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Netlify Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites

- [x] Firebase project configured with Anonymous Auth enabled
- [x] Firebase Database security rules updated
- [x] `.env.local` file configured locally
- [x] Code tested locally with `npm run dev`
- [ ] Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket)
- [ ] Netlify account

## Step 1: Prepare Your Repository

### Push to Git (if not already)

```bash
# Initialize git (if needed)
git init

# Add all files
git add .

# Commit
git commit -m "Production ready with Firebase Auth"

# Add remote (replace with your repo URL)
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/tile-race-game.git

# Push
git push -u origin main
```

## Step 2: Install Netlify CLI (Optional but Recommended)

```bash
npm install -D @netlify/plugin-nextjs
```

Then commit:
```bash
git add package.json package-lock.json
git commit -m "Add Netlify Next.js plugin"
git push
```

## Step 3: Create netlify.toml Configuration

Already created in your project root. Contents:

```toml
[build]
  command = "npm run build"
  publish = ".next"

[[plugins]]
  package = "@netlify/plugin-nextjs"

[build.environment]
  NODE_VERSION = "20"
```

## Step 4: Deploy to Netlify

### Option A: Netlify Dashboard (Easiest)

1. **Go to [netlify.com](https://netlify.com)**
2. **Click "Add new site" → "Import an existing project"**
3. **Connect to Git provider** (GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket)
4. **Select your repository**
5. **Configure build settings:**
   - Build command: `npm run build` (auto-detected)
   - Publish directory: `.next` (auto-detected)
   - Click "Show advanced" if needed

6. **Add environment variables** (CRITICAL):
   Click "Add environment variables" and add ALL of these:
   
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_api_key
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your-project.firebaseapp.com
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_DATABASE_URL=https://your-project-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your-project.appspot.com
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=123456789012
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_APP_ID=1:123456789012:web:abcdef
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=G-XXXXXXXXXX
   ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_strong_production_password
   ```

7. **Click "Deploy site"**

8. **Wait for deployment** (~2-5 minutes)

### Option B: Netlify CLI

```bash
# Install CLI globally
npm install -g netlify-cli

# Login
netlify login

# Initialize (from project directory)
netlify init

# Follow prompts:
# - Create & configure a new site
# - Choose your team
# - Site name: tile-race-game (or custom)
# - Build command: npm run build
# - Publish directory: .next

# Add environment variables
netlify env:set NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY "your_value"
netlify env:set NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN "your_value"
# ... repeat for all env vars

# Deploy
netlify deploy --prod
```

## Step 5: Configure Your Site

### Set Production Admin Password

**CRITICAL**: In Netlify Dashboard → Site settings → Environment variables:

Change `ADMIN_PASSWORD` to something strong:
```
ADMIN_PASSWORD=MyVeryStr0ng!Password2025
```

After changing, redeploy:
```bash
git commit --allow-empty -m "Trigger redeploy"
git push
```

Or in Netlify Dashboard: **Deploys → Trigger deploy → Deploy site**

### Custom Domain (Optional)

1. Netlify Dashboard → **Domain management**
2. Click "Add custom domain"
3. Enter your domain (e.g., `tilerace.yourdomain.com`)
4. Follow DNS configuration instructions
5. SSL certificate auto-generated (free)

## Step 6: Test Production Deployment

1. **Visit your Netlify URL** (e.g., `https://your-site.netlify.app`)
2. **Check authentication**:
   - Should see brief loading screen
   - Game should load automatically
   - Check browser console for errors
3. **Test game functionality**:
   - Go to `/admin` - login with production password
   - Create teams, set passwords
   - Open in another browser/incognito
   - Select team and test gameplay
4. **Check Firebase Console**:
   - Authentication → Users (should see anonymous users)
   - Database → Data (should see game data syncing)

## Step 7: Monitoring & Maintenance

### Netlify Analytics
- Site overview → Analytics
- Monitor traffic, build times
- Check for errors in Function logs

### Firebase Monitoring
- Console → Analytics
- Check user growth
- Monitor database usage
- Set up budget alerts

### Set Up Alerts

**Netlify:**
- Deploy notifications (Settings → Build & deploy → Deploy notifications)
- Add webhook to Discord/Slack

**Firebase:**
- Project settings → Usage and billing
- Set budget alerts
- Enable daily usage emails

## Troubleshooting

### Build Failures

**"Module not found":**
```bash
# Ensure all dependencies in package.json
npm install
git add package-lock.json
git commit -m "Update dependencies"
git push
```

**"Environment variable undefined":**
- Check all `NEXT_PUBLIC_*` variables in Netlify
- Redeploy after adding variables

### Runtime Errors

**"Permission Denied" in Firebase:**
1. Check Anonymous auth is enabled
2. Check database rules are published
3. Check Firebase config values are correct

**"CORS Error":**
- Firebase automatically allows all origins
- Check if using correct `authDomain` and `databaseURL`

**Admin Panel 403:**
- Check `ADMIN_PASSWORD` environment variable is set
- Ensure it's NOT prefixed with `NEXT_PUBLIC_`

### Performance Issues

**Slow loads:**
- Enable Netlify CDN (automatic)
- Check Firebase region (closer to users = faster)
- Monitor Firebase quotas

**Build timeout:**
- Increase timeout in Netlify settings (max 30 min)
- Check for circular dependencies

## Continuous Deployment

Once set up, every push to your main branch will:
1. ✅ Trigger Netlify build
2. ✅ Run `npm run build`
3. ✅ Deploy new version
4. ✅ Keep previous deployments as rollback points

### Manual Deploys

```bash
# Deploy specific branch
git checkout feature-branch
git push origin feature-branch

# In Netlify: Create branch deploy
# Or use CLI:
netlify deploy --alias=feature-preview
```

## Rollback

If something goes wrong:

1. Netlify Dashboard → **Deploys**
2. Find last working deploy
3. Click **"⋯"** → **"Publish deploy"**
4. Instant rollback!

## Cost Summary

### Netlify
- **Free tier**: 100GB bandwidth, 300 build minutes/month
- **Pro**: $19/month - More bandwidth, faster builds
- **Your app**: Should fit in free tier easily

### Firebase (with Auth)
- **Spark (Free)**: 100 connections, anonymous auth included
- **Blaze**: Pay-as-you-go after free tier
- **Your app**: Likely free tier sufficient for moderate use

## Security Checklist

- [ ] Admin password changed from default
- [ ] Firebase database rules published
- [ ] Anonymous auth enabled in Firebase
- [ ] All environment variables set in Netlify
- [ ] `.env.local` NOT committed to Git
- [ ] Firebase budget alerts configured
- [ ] Tested on production URL
- [ ] Custom domain SSL enabled (if using)

## Next Steps After Deployment

1. **Share the URL** with your team/players
2. **Create teams** via admin panel
3. **Monitor usage** in first 24 hours
4. **Set up backups** (Firebase daily exports)
5. **Consider**: 
   - Analytics (Google Analytics, Plausible)
   - Error tracking (Sentry)
   - Uptime monitoring (UptimeRobot)

## Support Resources

- **Netlify Docs**: https://docs.netlify.com/
- **Netlify Support**: https://answers.netlify.com/
- **Firebase Docs**: https://firebase.google.com/docs
- **Next.js on Netlify**: https://docs.netlify.com/frameworks/next-js/

---

🎉 **You're ready to deploy!** Follow Step 4 to get your game live on the internet.

Commit message:

Implement database-based admin authentication and master admin restrictions

NETLIFY_DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Netlify Deployment Guide

## Prerequisites

- [x] Firebase project configured with Anonymous Auth enabled
- [x] Firebase Database security rules updated
- [x] `.env.local` file configured locally
- [x] Code tested locally with `npm run dev`
- [ ] Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket)
- [ ] Netlify account

## Step 1: Prepare Your Repository

### Push to Git (if not already)

```bash
# Initialize git (if needed)
git init

# Add all files
git add .

# Commit
git commit -m "Production ready with Firebase Auth"

# Add remote (replace with your repo URL)
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/tile-race-game.git

# Push
git push -u origin main
```

## Step 2: Install Netlify CLI (Optional but Recommended)

```bash
npm install -D @netlify/plugin-nextjs
```

Then commit:
```bash
git add package.json package-lock.json
git commit -m "Add Netlify Next.js plugin"
git push
```

## Step 3: Create netlify.toml Configuration

Already created in your project root. Contents:

```toml
[build]
  command = "npm run build"
  publish = ".next"

[[plugins]]
  package = "@netlify/plugin-nextjs"

[build.environment]
  NODE_VERSION = "20"
```

## Step 4: Deploy to Netlify

### Option A: Netlify Dashboard (Easiest)

1. **Go to [netlify.com](https://netlify.com)**
2. **Click "Add new site" → "Import an existing project"**
3. **Connect to Git provider** (GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket)
4. **Select your repository**
5. **Configure build settings:**
   - Build command: `npm run build` (auto-detected)
   - Publish directory: `.next` (auto-detected)
   - Click "Show advanced" if needed

6. **Add environment variables** (CRITICAL):
   Click "Add environment variables" and add ALL of these:
   
   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_api_key
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your-project.firebaseapp.com
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_DATABASE_URL=https://your-project-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your-project.appspot.com
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=123456789012
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_APP_ID=1:123456789012:web:abcdef
   NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=G-XXXXXXXXXX
   ```

7. **Click "Deploy site"**

8. **Wait for deployment** (~2-5 minutes)

### Option B: Netlify CLI

```bash
# Install CLI globally
npm install -g netlify-cli

# Login
netlify login

# Initialize (from project directory)
netlify init

# Follow prompts:
# - Create & configure a new site
# - Choose your team
# - Site name: tile-race-game (or custom)
# - Build command: npm run build
# - Publish directory: .next

# Add environment variables
netlify env:set NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY "your_value"
netlify env:set NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN "your_value"
# ... repeat for all env vars

# Deploy
netlify deploy --prod
```

## Step 5: Configure Your Site

### Set Up Admin Accounts

**IMPORTANT**: After deployment, set up admin accounts:

1. Visit your deployed site URL
2. Login as an existing admin or use the "Manage Admins" feature
3. Create admin accounts with strong passwords
4. Designate at least one as "Master Admin"

Admin credentials are stored in the Firebase database, not environment variables.

### Custom Domain (Optional)

1. Netlify Dashboard → **Domain management**
2. Click "Add custom domain"
3. Enter your domain (e.g., `tilerace.yourdomain.com`)
4. Follow DNS configuration instructions
5. SSL certificate auto-generated (free)

## Step 6: Test Production Deployment

1. **Visit your Netlify URL** (e.g., `https://your-site.netlify.app`)
2. **Check authentication**:
   - Should see brief loading screen
   - Game should load automatically
   - Check browser console for errors
3. **Test game functionality**:
   - Go to `/admin` - login with production password
   - Create teams, set passwords
   - Open in another browser/incognito
   - Select team and test gameplay
4. **Check Firebase Console**:
   - Authentication → Users (should see anonymous users)
   - Database → Data (should see game data syncing)

## Step 7: Monitoring & Maintenance

### Netlify Analytics
- Site overview → Analytics
- Monitor traffic, build times
- Check for errors in Function logs

### Firebase Monitoring
- Console → Analytics
- Check user growth
- Monitor database usage
- Set up budget alerts

### Set Up Alerts

**Netlify:**
- Deploy notifications (Settings → Build & deploy → Deploy notifications)
- Add webhook to Discord/Slack

**Firebase:**
- Project settings → Usage and billing
- Set budget alerts
- Enable daily usage emails

## Troubleshooting

### Build Failures

**"Module not found":**
```bash
# Ensure all dependencies in package.json
npm install
git add package-lock.json
git commit -m "Update dependencies"
git push
```

**"Environment variable undefined":**
- Check all `NEXT_PUBLIC_*` variables in Netlify
- Redeploy after adding variables

### Runtime Errors

**"Permission Denied" in Firebase:**
1. Check Anonymous auth is enabled
2. Check database rules are published
3. Check Firebase config values are correct

**"CORS Error":**
- Firebase automatically allows all origins
- Check if using correct `authDomain` and `databaseURL`

**Admin Login Issues:**
- Ensure admin accounts are configured in the database
- Check Firebase database rules allow read/write access
- Verify admin credentials are correct

### Performance Issues

**Slow loads:**
- Enable Netlify CDN (automatic)
- Check Firebase region (closer to users = faster)
- Monitor Firebase quotas

**Build timeout:**
- Increase timeout in Netlify settings (max 30 min)
- Check for circular dependencies

## Continuous Deployment

Once set up, every push to your main branch will:
1. ✅ Trigger Netlify build
2. ✅ Run `npm run build`
3. ✅ Deploy new version
4. ✅ Keep previous deployments as rollback points

### Manual Deploys

```bash
# Deploy specific branch
git checkout feature-branch
git push origin feature-branch

# In Netlify: Create branch deploy
# Or use CLI:
netlify deploy --alias=feature-preview
```

## Rollback

If something goes wrong:

1. Netlify Dashboard → **Deploys**
2. Find last working deploy
3. Click **"⋯"** → **"Publish deploy"**
4. Instant rollback!

## Cost Summary

### Netlify
- **Free tier**: 100GB bandwidth, 300 build minutes/month
- **Pro**: $19/month - More bandwidth, faster builds
- **Your app**: Should fit in free tier easily

### Firebase (with Auth)
- **Spark (Free)**: 100 connections, anonymous auth included
- **Blaze**: Pay-as-you-go after free tier
- **Your app**: Likely free tier sufficient for moderate use

## Security Checklist

- [ ] Admin password changed from default
- [ ] Firebase database rules published
- [ ] Anonymous auth enabled in Firebase
- [ ] All environment variables set in Netlify
- [ ] `.env.local` NOT committed to Git
- [ ] Firebase budget alerts configured
- [ ] Tested on production URL
- [ ] Custom domain SSL enabled (if using)

## Next Steps After Deployment

1. **Share the URL** with your team/players
2. **Create teams** via admin panel
3. **Monitor usage** in first 24 hours
4. **Set up backups** (Firebase daily exports)
5. **Consider**: 
   - Analytics (Google Analytics, Plausible)
   - Error tracking (Sentry)
   - Uptime monitoring (UptimeRobot)

## Support Resources

- **Netlify Docs**: https://docs.netlify.com/
- **Netlify Support**: https://answers.netlify.com/
- **Firebase Docs**: https://firebase.google.com/docs
- **Next.js on Netlify**: https://docs.netlify.com/frameworks/next-js/

---

🎉 **You're ready to deploy!** Follow Step 4 to get your game live on the internet.
